Yes let's do, it uh thanks, a lot everyone for joining and for giving the, quick introductions.
Um i'm, gonna now. Oh amazing thank you? Mountain team that's, quite important um i'm gonna start sharing, my screen here to go through uh some materials that, we got uh we got, to prepare.
Hmm okay so can you already see my screen nicely let's see here.
Okay amazing thank you. Uh so yes, again as i mentioned, thanks a lot for uh, joining this.
End of year uh support, workshop to local notes.
Um basically the, intention was to um compile basically all the, resources and kind of uh, yeah supports that we provide uh to local nodes.
And be having a final a last touch point, uh this year to, basically see how, uh yeah how you all are in the development, of your local notes if you're already, a local note, lead.
Um but basically. To bring together people in all stages of starting a local note.
Uh so either whether, um if it is a more developed node or if it is uh you just have the idea of starting a local knowledge in our region.
Um yeah basically the, intention, here with the workshop is, to bring everyone together and have some knowledge experience sharing.
Uh and for us to, share, the the resources that we have to to support in the process.
Uh. Okay so that's, a quick uh the quick agenda that we're gonna uh follow today.
Uh we already did get to have the round of introductions.
So let's keep that? Um. So yes.
As i mentioned uh we're, compiling here all the, resources that we have available for new local notes.
Um and i'm, gonna be going through some of these, um and.
Yes so the main. Resource that we have is the onboarding guide um i'll be, sharing the link.
To it uh on the, tab here on zoom.
Which i left a second.
Okay just did so if you'd like you? Can also follow uh there basically the content.
Uh, so. Cool i'm, gonna be going through the presentation again as i mentioned you, can go through the the page.
Um so the onboarding process that we have for local notes um the first.
Step uh so the, steps are. To join the communication gardens, uh gardens is the platform that? We use for uh we've been using for most of the governance in uh riffel's network.
Um it uses conviction voting so that uh the community can have a weight on uh.
Yeah what proposals to pass and, so on. Uh by joining the uh refi dial garden um.
You become? Uh an a referral network member um and from there you? Can basically start your journey to uh yeah develop your node or just be part of the network.
Um so there are a few steps in the process as i mentioned the first one is to uh join the gardens then there is a little, interest form.
For forming a new local note.
The next two to, three years getting to about a trillion dollars off.
I'm, also, gonna be i still. Hello society welcome oh nice thank you? For muting yourself.
Um so then if you're interested in uh starting a local note we have this local note, formation interest form.
Um i'm, gonna be sharing here on the. Chat soonish as, well um.
So yeah if you're interested in starting a note uh a new local note please uh fill up this form and then we'll be following up.
Uh with you? And supporting you? In the process.
Um and then here bringing a bit of, what happens, after you uh yeah the initial idea of the local note is approved.
Um we'll give some follow up giving you? All the um.
Out the directions and instructions to uh continue. With the formation of the local node.
Um and now i'll go through the, specific uh resources that we, have available for new local notes.
Hmm so here are a few resources that we've been uh preparing uh the, last couple of.
Here's basically, um some of them can, be, quite useful and they're all available for free for new local notes for.
Oh local notes uh so yeah. It can be useful.
If you'd like to use some of them. Uh and now let me actually get intro um each one of them.
Uh so one, of the most relevant ones is definitely the local note graphic assets figma design.
Board uh so it is, from, um a couple of years ago basically from, uh john's uh.
Leadership like, age so thanks a lot for uh preparing and uh yeah leaving this resource, uh for.
Lock on ots now um. And basically on the on this figma board uh, there's, a bunch, of templates of different? Kinds of graphics so um.
The, logo for your local note, uh graphic.
Um all sort of uh. Yeah graphics like, banner images uh, posts.
Um things for events as well. Uh there's quite a few stuff there so uh one of the initial steps of uh starting your local knowledge is basically to go there and start uh developing your own nodes.
Uh. Visual identity. Uh, so yeah basically see how.
Uh to fit three five, dollars branding into the, specific context of the local note let me see if i can actually.
Go through the board really quick, would actually be nice to um.
Sure a couple, of examples. Uh, so i think you can see here right screen.
Uh, let me share, my screen actually real quick um.
Yes we see it.
Sure yes okay nice.
Uh because we actually, have some even newer resources.
That's super cool.
Um that i can share.
Um if you? Just give me one. Deck here we go shaft.
That's.
Um.
So that's just loading and. Then we have look so uh this, was actually developed by adam.
Um one of our new designers. And has created.
These templates, with detailed instructions. Uh for how, to create, um the aligned uh branding and, a whole bunch of assets so here we have event posters, uh with different? Quotes on it um aligned with different? Uh pieces and i think we would love to build like a library of, like.
The most aligned interesting posters people can fork them create their own, versions um and then print them out in lots, of banners as company, to events so i think we can continue to grow that.
Um we have here if it will load.
Um.
Oh here oh yeah his his um. Some a brochure a brochure template so if you want to customize a local node brochure put your links on there put your, key things around around the local node as well as the global network.
And that's quite a nice additional asset uh we. Have the making the urn banner customizing it with your place behind um the thing to create this really clean.
Um, quite, uh, nice-looking, uh, banner for your place, um, and… and then the logo one is not seeming to load, but that's also there.
Um, and what was this one? Yeah, that, uh, so yeah, that's some of the latest, uh, ones, in addition to the ones that Louise was sharing, uh, there as well. So, um…
Just sharing that as an asset, once you've gone through the process, this is, uh, you know, a key benefit of being part of the network.
Back to you, Louise.
Amazing, thanks a lot for showing this one, Monty.
So, all of these resources are all linked in the local knowledge onboarding Guide.
So, uh, yeah, please go through that, and you'll be able to see all of the
Yeah, resources and assets that we have.
Uh, let me show my screen again…
Monty, is that… it happens to be in our refi notion page. I think that's… I think that's what we…
Yes. Yes, uh, so, actually, if you… we're gonna come out with a full updated guide and, kind of, hub with all of these assets and a process for it, so we'll share that on the Telegram groups for just kind of finalizing some of the texts and…
And the processes for it. Uh, but yes, these assets will all be available to all validated local nodes.
Uh, so yeah, I'll share that… share that on the Telegram group soon.
Nice.
I'm having now some minor issues sharing my screen, uh, but let me try…
That's another way…
Okay. Nice.
Okay, cool, amazing. So, again, thanks, Moji, for going through the, uh, yeah, new, um, graphic assets board as well.
So, again, everything linked on the onboarding guide on Notion, the one that I shared on the chat, and we'll be sharing again more throughout
Um, then going on to the next resource, uh, we also have the local node canvas.
Uh, so that's an optional one, so it's, uh, not…
as mandatory, let's say, as developing your node's own, uh, graphic, uh, assets.
But this is really, really good to give some, um, yeah, the development on the node, and to basically, uh, yeah, develop what are the assumptions.
Actually, like, the construct what are the assumptions, and um… yeah.
define what are the key aspects of the nodes, what strategy is going to follow.
Um, and so on. Um… I don't know, it's quite a, uh…
fairly common, uh, model.
As a business canvas, but it's already focusing here in the context of local nodes.
Uh, so it can be quite useful, uh, to, yeah, develop this strategy for, for a local node.
Uh, let me go on to the next one.
Then we also have the local node toolkit.
Uh, the local node toolkit is a compilation of resources that have been prepared throughout this last years.
Uh, by local nodes on how to organize events, how to also strategize and develop the vision for your local node.
Um, it also includes some of the basics of what actually is a local node, how to engage the community, and so on.
Um, and the idea is that, uh, the toolkit here, uh, is something that we are constantly growing.
Uh, so if you are a local noder and have any experience, any knowledge that you, uh, think would be nice to share with other local notes,
would be great to get, um, yeah, uh, additional inclusions here.
Uh, so, yeah, here are the toolkit.
Um, yeah, as I mentioned, more toolkits are being prepared, and uh, yeah, if any local node is, uh,
interested in sharing, that'd be appreciated. We are also, um…
We have also some plans for the local refi toolkit.
connecting with, uh, an initiative that we started with, uh, region coordination.
Um, but then we'll be… yeah.
It's still quite early in the development of the local refi toket, so that would be something a little bit more later on.
Um, additionally, I also wanted to share here, uh, something, uh, from, uh, the side of Refa Barcelona. So, something that, um, I personally have been preparing.
is this, uh, Quartz website.
toolkit, that is basically a template, uh, that is
hopefully really easy to fork, and then self-host your own website for free.
Um, so it's really good for, um…
For a local note to put up.
like a simple website or a one-pager, um, to, yeah, have it there, to be able to share around and basically state what are the, uh, what the local note is about.
Um, and so for that, we are providing the framework, and, uh, yeah, all the, um,
Here it comes!
system to easily fork it and create your own local node website and knowledge base.
Um, right now we're still… we're quite, uh, in… it's still quite in… quite in, uh, in an early stage.
Uh, so we just, um, we just adopted JT Refer Barcelona. We've also been adopting it in the, uh, local funding program that we've been running with, uh, with Barcelona that is the Juneta and Catalonia, that we talking a bit more about as well.
Um, and also are testing in Refidel, um,
Uh, for the network, um…
And also for Revamaged Iranian and Refi Provence with Alejandra.
Yeah. This one is particularly cool. I mean, right now, for RefaDow, we've been spending hundreds of… hundreds of dollars a month on various software platforms, like Airtable, uh, website builders,
and things like that. And what Louise has essentially done here is created a fully open source, uh, free version that just runs on GitHub, and all you pay for is a domain.
like, $10 a year, and you can have… and you could just fork this website, edit the content, and suddenly you've got a website for your node that's open source and interconnected with a network, the global website, and other nodes across the globe all
Uh, in the back end. And then we can do some pretty fancy stuff with AI and knowledge graphs and connect them all up. So, this is, I think, a really exciting
you've got a infrastructure that just becomes
replicable and free for the entire network. Um, and so anyone can spin up a homepage for their website and showcase what they're doing. So I'm excited to share that. I also would love to connect in. I know some nodes have already built websites, and I know, you know, the Columbia crew have their
Have a great site. So, you know, there's, uh, maybe we can add in other templates and, uh, versions and forks into a kind of library of, uh, of assets for people to leverage. So, awesome work, Louise, pulling this together, and excited to add this into the
Nice, thank you. Uh, yeah, thanks for, um, talking a bit more about it.
Um, and I'm quite happy that, uh, we got together a nice working version already, and we're already starting to implement.
Uh, so, also, if you'd be interested, feel free to reach me out. Here's my Telegram, or just in any, uh,
like Telegon Group. Um, but yeah, that…
Then, moving on to the next ones, um, this is just a quick one before this, um,
So, after you develop your local node, uh, uh, so yeah, develop, like, some initial, uh, aspects of your local node,
Um, then we… yeah, we have this, uh, funding pool on gardens, uh, that is to fund the, uh, initial activities of a local node.
Uh, so be it, uh, an event, a workshop, um, a mapping exercise, um,
We… yeah, you can basically put up a proposal for up to 500 USD Glow, uh, to fund this initial activity.
Um, and… yeah, and then basically just…
Then, before that, we ask for an additional, uh…
form, um, and that basically should be following up with, uh, what progress had been achieved, uh, yeah, have been achieved already, uh, by the nodes. So, if you go to…
develop, like, go through.
into the toolkit.
Uh, the, uh, necessary and optional steps for developing a local node.
And you're already ready to actually kickstart the activities of the node to the public, basically.
Yeah, so you'll have your Telegram channel set up, your community in there, your social media channels, your KarmaGap page,
And your graphic assets built, um, and then put it all into that form, and then we have, uh, in a database, and then we can showcase that on our website, the channels, and
And your, kind of, node is fully launched, and then there's an initial, kind of, $500 to kickstart your first activation.
Um, and get started. Uh, so I think, Louise, we've had maybe 3 or 4 nodes come in in the last, uh, 3-4 months, uh, through this.
process, and we've just kind of refined it a bit, and I think what we'll do from here is invite
those new nodes and some of the existing ones to just…
come through this process as well, and then we just have this wonderful resource of all of the active, uh, nodes and the kind of current state of them. So expect a kind of process coming up for that.
Yes, exactly. Thanks, Monty. And yeah, we actually have two, um, two notes here that got, uh, funded already through the Kickstarter pool.
So, uh, Rifa Nogo on the first, um, event there, um, I'd be quite keen to hear how it was at some point.
Um, and also from Refin Paka, in the process of being renamed to Refi Provence, so…
Uh, yeah, happy to already be, uh, finding a new local notester, and, uh, yeah, we'll be sharing more, so that, uh, also other local notes and so on.
can participate as well.
Then, going through…
Uh, so that's basically it for, uh, the resources that we currently have available for, uh, local nodes.
As we mentioned, we will be developing more and ideas to create a library of resources, a library of toolkits of how to implement it all, and so on.
Uh, so if you'd have an idea, uh, any suggestion,
Yeah, like, if you're a local node leader, and you did, like, a nice experiment, like, for instance, uh, the, uh, Riva Colombia nodes are RIFA Medellin,
Like, with the UBI experiment, and you'd like to share, like, a guidebook for how, like, a local node can adopt, like, a UBI mechanism,
soon, which we'll share on the Telegram group with everyone.
Um, yeah, that would be something, uh, nice to be, uh, collecting, and then growing the library over time.
Um, and yeah, that's basically what we have for now, uh, for resources to be
Um, yeah, to be prepared.
Yeah.
Um, can you hear any questions? We have now a little open space for quest… uh, yeah, basically this space for, uh, questions, and then also we're gonna have an open space talking about
Uh, yeah, doing some… some experience and knowledge sharing between local nodes.
Yeah, awesome, thanks so that… so much, Louise, for…
for presenting all that, and just picking up on that last point, I think it's super interesting. Um, it mentioned, uh, the Refer Colombia has developed, like, a, um, a lending, a community lending platform where trusted members of the community can apply to get a loan, and they've built an on-chain app that facilitates that whole process.
And in the spirit… in the same spirit of the open source website toolkit that Louise has built, you know, we'd like to
document that, and have that as something that any other node could say, hey, that sheet would be a great fit for my community, and here are the ways I can easily replicate that in my area. So if you're doing something cool,
in your local place, and, um, in the spirit of reciprocity, you want to support the global network, um, then
you know, we'd love to work with you, um, to develop that into a, uh, an open source toolkit that others can adopt, um, and we have some funding available to support the creation of those toolkits and playbooks as well.
Um, so… yeah, continue to grow, grow the resource library, uh, and, and support the network.
That's what we've been cooking, um, this year a bit, and, uh, some much more, uh, many more exciting updates as well coming as well, so we'll be sharing a kind of, um,
end of year reflection report and 2026 vision, um, stuff on the forum, and I know John's going to present some of the ideas of some research we're doing, uh, to support that.
Um, so, yeah, we'd love to invite any questions, thoughts, comments, um…
I see Warria has already got her hand up, so let's, uh, start there.
Thank you! Hi, everybody. Well, we are very happy.
a Drifa Colombia, we adopted highly successful managing subside program.
And now, we are applying this to more arrests for the country, from the coast of Colombia to the Amazon. So, where we are so very happy from this, and I just want to share this, and thank you very much.
A for the opportunity.
Could you explain a little bit to the folks what the subsidy program is, um, and how that works?
Okay, yeah. Yeah, it's a program for people, um… They are very… Need some help, I don't know how to say that. Yeah, from people for low recourse resources. So, it's a little help. We do this from the water tooth to Cup.
in the C-COP, is the payment, is the stablecoin of Colombia. So that's what we create, like, the adoption also. And this subsidies, they receive this, uh.
Yeah, how do you say that? A final of 6 days?
the 7 days, all 7 days, they can reclaim the subsidies.
Cool. So my…
So this is how it works. Yeah, it helps a lot of people. There are, uh… People can buy something, or it's just a help from these kind of people, and we are happy because this program is growing, just not from the people of Medellin and Antukas.
Uh, just for old Colombia, because we have a lot of, uh… people that we need this, eh.
subsid, yeah.
Got it.
Yeah.
Awesome, amazing. Just to repeat back what I heard in my understanding on it, and you can tell me if it's correct, um, it's essentially almost like a UBI-type platform, where, um, started by Rifa Medellin, where anyone who's kind of disadvantaged or whatever can go onto the… this platform.
And every 7 days, they can claim a small amount of Colombian pesos, uh, that are on-chain, so Selo has an on-chain Colombian peso, um, and, um, there's a pool then, and maybe that pool generates some yield, and so it creates an ongoing supply, and then anyone from the country, now expanded from Refo Medellin to the whole of Colombia,
can come and claim a small amount, which generates some onboarding to the Web3 systems, and is providing real support for people
Uh, in the community, and kind of bringing them into the ReFight Columbia ecosystem. Um, which I think is a pretty, pretty cool mechanism, and it would be awesome to see if other nodes wanted to, um, to implement in that, in their places.
Um, was that a fair representation, Warrior? And thank you.
Yeah, yeah, perfect. That's it. You feel very well.
Amazing.
We're very happy. Thank you very much.
Awesome, and feel free to drop a link in the chat, I see Vincent's asking for it.
Uh, cool, friends! Hello.
bands are there?
Friends, you're muted if you're… if you're trying to speak, but I see you've got your hand raised if you wanted to…
unmute and say hello.
Uh, maybe we'll go to one quickly while Franz figures out his…
Uh, mute button.
Hey, how are you? You can hear me? Okay, so, yeah, I just want to add something, uh… So, wider, wider side.
Um, is… is that… The subsistence is not like a pool where, like.
Oh.
We are making, like, revenue? No, but by now, by the moment, it's not, it's not that way.
By now, it's just like the subsidy contract, you can… you can go and.
donate something. I'm gonna just leave the link here, is subsidio.oraficcolombia.org.
It's just like… we just migrated the domain from Medellin to Colombia, and we are just revamping the UI and stuff like that.
And you can go there, and you are gonna… if you can open the link, maybe, Monty, in the screen, you can see there, like.
There is an option to claim the subsidy when you connect the wallet, and it's gonna say, like, you are not a beneficiary, but if you are a beneficiary, you can claim the subsidy.
And also, you will see, like, the option to donate.
So you can just donate any amount of CCOB. We just have the… The option to donate in C-Corp, but we are going to integrate their, like, you need to put the amount of C corp and just click on donate.
If you have C-Pub, you are going to be able to donate. If not, you're only going to be able to donate. But we are going to, like.
Improve this. So, people will be able to donate in any token, and the contract is gonna.
swap the tokens into C-Corp. So, when people claim the funds, they always get C-COP.
And this is… this is, like, the simple UI. If somebody.
If somebody has, like, a wallet, and they want to claim the subsidy by desktop UI.
Okay, that was the old form. That form also needs to be, like, revamped and updated.
But the idea here is, like, people don't need to interact with this.
This is, like, if just somebody wants to do through the web app.
But people, when they download the Tuco Wallet, that is the wallet that… Everyone in Colombia is… We are trying to… everyone in Colombia use that wallet.
They have… They have the… they have the… the subsidy, like, interaction directly with the… With a… with a contract integrated, integrated in the… in the wallet. So they just need to click in the wallet.
I think you can see a screenshot of that.
Hello? Yes, we can hear you.
So I think this is the two-cot wallet, um, that…
In the… in the last… in the latest… let me… Check this, and…
refi and Salo Columbia have been supporting, um,
the creation of and the development of, is that right?
Yeah, but…
Yeah.
Yeah, but there is… there is a post. In… in the acts of refined or refine Columbia, or shallow Columbia, there is a post when you… where you can see, like, the… the screenshot.
Awesome.
Of the… of their wallet. With the… with the… with… with a claim option. Okay, this is the post. Let me share with you the post. I already have time.
Yes. Feel free to share it in the chat, that'd be cool.
Uh… Okay, this is the post. If you can… if you can show this post.
You can see… you can see the… The Buddha in the… in the wallet to claim the subsidy.
So, okay, people have their wallet, and if you scroll down, yeah, just click on claim your subsidi, and that's all.
Amazing. Yeah, this is super cool. I mean, I think this is… this is incredible work, because it's basically creating a direct way
So it's very easy for them.
of onboarding people into the system in a way that's creating real value for them, and actually onboarding the local economy on-chain. This payment app seems like it's being adopted quite widely, even with payment merchants and local retailers, and then you're having a way for people to come and
Uh, and validated community members can claim a sort of basic subsidy, um, as well.
Um, and even, uh, progress to getting, uh, you know, low-interest loans. So, yeah, very cool stuff. Thanks for sharing, uh, ReFi Columbia.
crew, we should probably move on, uh,
Yeah, but just…
just, uh, because we've got some other people to share, but if you want to say some final words for one.
You have to clarify. Yeah, just to clarify, Monty, it's like, okay, now we are not generating revenue for fill out the contract, but in the future, that is the idea. Like, have a source to generate revenue.
And don't depend of donations. That is the idea in the future.
Amazing. Cool. Um, cool. Does anyone else have any… any questions related to that, or related to the presentation earlier, or anything at all?
Um, otherwise, I think we've got some other shares coming up, uh, in the agenda as well.
Um, but just open, uh…
That's an opportunity for any final questions.
Cool. Um…
Well, Louise, why don't you keep sharing?
Cool, cool. So, going on to the open space for experience and knowledge sharing,
Um, I'll pass over to Julio, uh…
Yeah, also from Refa Barcelona, that we'll be talking about our local funding… yeah, the local funding program that we've been organizing in Catalunya with local partners.
Um, and local and global funding from these local partners, and also Localism Fund, um,
So, yeah, if you'd like to, uh…
Talk a bit about it, Julio. Feel free to take the lead.
Yeah. I didn't remember very much, but yeah, I also wanted to be short.
And also because we did, I think, a very good.
job by documenting everything, so you can literally. Read everything we have done, and everything we are doing.
week by week. Um… so… Basically, yeah, we're doing this funding… Planning and educational program, I think, is… As much one as the other.
It's not just funding, it's a lot of… Training and capacitation for projects.
By, um… getting around 12K, 12,000 euros. from local stakeholders, from these two.
Groups of cooperatives in the city of Barcelona. in Catalunya. That was matched by the localism fund contribution.
Um… and then we kind of co-design this program.
And yeah, just a brief word on the… Luis, you want to move the website while I talk?
It's actually mounted to me sharing this.
Otherwise, it's fine, but that's… Otherwise, I can also do it.
I can do that, yes, I can do that.
Um,
No.
Ah, okay. Cool. Great. Also not necessary, but if you do, good.
And just a quick invitation, um, Julio. John was also going to share about the local node research. He jump at the top of the hour, um, so either, um,
Keep it 5 minutes, if possible, and then John can share, um, or even go the other way around. But yeah, maybe if you think 5 minutes is enough, then that's great, but just want to be, uh, make sure John can also share.
Yeah, I am. Cool. Um… Yeah, we engage with these two ecosystems, let's say. One is a… Um, group of associations and cooperatives in a neighborhood of Barcelona, which is the… I mean, it's a city in itself, it's very big.
And he said, most densely populated neighborhood in. Europe. So it's a group of cooperatives and associations.
Uh… and somehow we managed to convince them to do this, even though none of them, including the lead of the.
group. Understand anything about crypto, but… It's been a long work of, um… Engaging with them, and showing them that we are allied, and also the fact of living there.
And saying, okay, we live here long-term. Well, I think was important.
Um, and the other group… Uh, they are this cooperative of cooperatives working in the region.
On regeneration. across the whole spectrum of, like, cooperative, uh… housing, regenerative agriculture, consulting, they work with small, um.
administrations… And uh… yeah, I do a bunch of stuff.
I think it's one of the most interesting groups in the regions, and we're very… Honor to work with them.
So, this program for them is something very little.
And so it was not difficult for them to engage.
Um… and also two of the people in this.
COP were, like, very interested into crypto on their own, so yeah, they were excited about testing it.
Basically, yeah, we… We convince them, and then we kind of co-design the program together, even though.
All these people are very busy at the time, so… We try to engage them as much as possible, but uh… Yeah, in general, we're mostly accepting our proposal.
Um… yeah, the first part is, uh… kind of training on Web3.
And then on Karma Gap. And the goal of this first phase is to… make all these projects, which in total are 11.
To… He was kind of my gap, and produce an impact report on KarmaGap.
Then the funding is dispersed. Uh, equally to all projects.
Then break… originally was Christmas break. Now we move to January. And then the second phase is more, like, on testing tools, and then we had the idea of, uh.
Using tools at a group level. So, with partners, maybe testing something like, um… I'm community, this new app that has been… It launched recently.
Um… or multi-six, or… our phone and network, like, the… I guess what economic thinks ideally, but we'll see.
We will see, based on how the first phase go.
Um… yep, that's pretty much it. It's going okay, very difficult to engage people.
Uh… Everybody's super busy.
undistracted, but yeah, it's going, uh, okay, a lot of learnings.
Yeah, for sure, every week we have to change what we do.
And the plans, uh… the plans change a lot of times, but… Yeah, we're doing our best. Um, glad to answer to any question that you have in private.
You want to reach out to me or Luis in Telegram?
The website is there. And that's it. Louisa, did I miss anything significant?
That's quite perfect. Thanks a lot, Julia. Um, yeah.
it's been personally quite a, yeah, a really big pleasure to be organizing, uh,
Okay.
put this round together, and also…
Um, yeah, quite nice to be working with established actors in Catalonia, uh, that have been, like, from the cooperative, uh, ecosystem.
Uh, and so on, so quite happy to be doing that.
Also, just a quick…
A small clarification, um, so, like, on the two phases, on the first phase, we're basically following the same, uh,
pretty much the same process that, uh, of the region coordination, uh, DD23 round with the Karma Gap impact reporting, and then evaluation.
Uh, so, like, in the first phase, we are basically, uh, showcasing an individual level for projects, how they can, um, adopt
This shows, um, and then, uh, in Phase 2, at a collective level, we, uh, capacitate, like, each one of the two local networks, the two local funders,
to manage their own, uh…
yeah, the funds for Phase 2, using some of these tools, uh, also including home community.
We're also doing a collaboration with Region Foundation, uh, to, uh,
Uh, yeah, pilot their institutional development kit as part of the Ecological Institutions book.
Uh, so that's also quite something quite cool.
Uh, but now I see that we have 5 minutes left for, uh, John to have to leave, so would you like to take the lead, uh, John?
Uh, let me share again my slides here.
Sure, I'm not gonna take a whole 5 minutes. I actually had a brief question for you, Julio, off the back of what you shared, which is so impressive, I feel like.
What you guys have done there is a really kind of watershed moment for the movement.
getting together, you know, non-Web3 actors at a bioregional level.
But, you know, a regeneration focus.
What do you think is the main limitation? You said people are busy.
And people are distracted, but, like, what have you guys done that hasn't been working in terms of actually, you know, getting the attention of people you're trying to serve? I'm just curious if you can go deeper into that.
That's a good question. I think, um, we had a very peculiar conditions.
in terms of theme and context. Because Louise was very motivated to do it, since.
Yeah.
Out of time, and it's part of the… was part of, in a way, of the… the ecosystem and the network, so… get this kind of perspective, um… And I've been working a lot with, um…
Okay.
local… development notes and stuff like that. Previously, in Granada, Spain, when it's been a disaster.
Mm-hmm.
Like, in 2022, I had a disastrous experience working in another part of Spain, and I think this was the… Why it worked this time.
Okay.
Because really, it takes a lot of mistakes to… we don't, um… Andrea torto… a member of Barcelona, she's also… Very competent in a lot of ways, so I think the team was very…
Yeah.
Objectively very experienced in a lot of. Context and domains, and we also had a good division of.
Or because maybe Luis is much more technically capable than the other two, maybe I'm more… I'm better than going around and networking, so it was a good combination.
Mm-mm.
Um… But I don't think it's, at the moment, it's very applicable, because it's still, like, uh… took so much time.
Yeah.
Hmm.
And that's what, like, so much time and effort is… insane. Um… but yeah, it's difficult to test new things, so I guess… and thank you for the compliment.
Totally.
a watershed moment, I think, is too much, but uh…
Dude, I'm blown away. It looks awesome, man. And I think that's a great segue to what I offered, um, after the last call with Monty and Luis to do and support, is…
basically, um, yeah, my wife Fatima and I would be honored to interview a bunch of local Node leaders and understand what's working, what isn't,
Um, where do you need help, specifically? Obviously, you've got some great toolkits and resources from Luigi and Monty here, but
Um, we want to go a bit of a layer deeper and just try and take almost an outside perspective on the state of the network and the local nodes.
And also a leadership lens, so Fatima's got, uh, executive coaching and leadership background, worked with
Snapchat and Google and some of these others. And, um, I'm all good.
You can take your joy, no worries. Um, she's got another call in there next door.
And the thought was that we can not only do the kind of annual local node roundup, like we've been doing in the past, but also develop a curriculum for a 2026
incubator or leadership program.
And I know that ReFiDAO and Regent Coordination, these other networks, are thankfully cross-pollinating and blending, and I'd want to take
as broad of a view as we can to serve as many people to accelerate the impact towards their generation. Doesn't matter what we call it, in my view.
And I think, um, you know, over the last 6 months, I've gone super deep into building software products with AI.
And I would be very happy also if any local node leaders are interested in getting up to speed with Cloud Code and with some of these other toolings.
I think Web3 is great, uh, and it can do a lot of things, but there's also a lot of other stuff that is out there that can support regeneration.
So, um, we have a forum post up on the ReFight Out forum.
Um, feel free to take a look and provide comments. We've got, kind of,
a very high-level project plan and overview. Um, would love to have some feedback and input, and basically, yeah, be a support for all you amazing local node leaders, and who knows?
We might make a refi Marrakesh, or, uh,
Thank you, John. Wow, I'm amazed. Thank you so much for everyone for sharing all of this. Literally.
Yesterday, we were talking with NetState, with France, about creating what is Refied out for Argentina, and these are onboarding for.
places that already have a physical layer, but are not yet quite there in the digital ways.
So, all the help, if we can just join, all the people that we are doing this kind of connection.
It's amazing, and Monday, Luis, thank you so much for all that you have put together.
It's outstanding, like, it's literally… I've been dreaming about having that for the past 3 years, and now I see this, and I'm like, wow, this was fast, this is amazing! So… Thank you, thank you so much. And anyone that is interested in this, please talk to us, to France, to the next stage. We are, like.
hard open and mind open to make this happen.
Amazing, thanks so much for that.
Oh, amazing, what beautiful energy and vibes to bring, uh…
to this moment in the call. I appreciate you coming and sharing.
And very excited. I was… it was amazing to come to Argentina and meet, uh, meet you all there.
And spend a month together in Patagonia, in the regen house, and really understand the local
context and meet the community there, so I'm really grateful for that, and exciting to see how it's following up and emerging.
And, uh, and growing from that seed.
Um, so yeah, awesome stuff, and goodbye, John!
Are you… I have a… can I have a quick comment of 30 seconds that I forgot to add?
Yes.
I think it was, um… I think that, yeah, um, what we did in Barcelona, in Catonia, has been cool, but it's also been limited by the fact that most people don't give a about crypto.
And maybe I'm also against it? And there's this kind of cultural aversion to it, and also sort of laziness related to wealth.
And also with the fact that. the financial infrastructure here is kind of functional, and the currency is stable.
Uh, nobody is starving, pretty much, but I think it would be much easier to do this.
Kind of things and programs. in the cities in the Global South, for example.
Because there, you actually have a use case for stablecoins, which is.
very clear, and I think, um… Organization would be much, uh, more inclined to participate, because it's useful.
They need it. Um, yeah, it was kind of annoying stay here with.
projects and having to convince them that this technology one day would be useful to something.
So, um, yeah, I think things could get a lot of traction in the global south in this sense. Then, I don't know, maybe Luis disagrees, but uh… I'm usually defending Robot South, and he's like, hmm, actually, not so much, uh…
Yeah, they just want to add that. I think in Argentina, for example, that is becoming a crypto hub, and the currency is crazy.
Yeah, totally.
You can do a lot of stuff more.
Yeah, in Argentina, we're very, like, open to all of this, and everyone is already on board, so just creating a new system, because, well, if you know our politics, you know what I'm talking about.
So, it's… the vibe is already here.
Amazing, love that, and I think there's a definitely interesting reflections. Um, yeah, we're at the top of the hour, so if anyone's got to drop, uh, then feel free to, um, but Louise, correct me if I'm wrong, we still have a little bit more time if we want… if anyone else wanted to share some stuff, or is that what you… what are you thinking?
Yes, exactly. So, we would have an extra 30 minutes, so we can have if there'd be more discussion topics to then, and then basically, like, end to…
We're over. Uh, but actually, I wanted to suggest now, uh, that we're actually already a bit over the top of the hour.
Uh, to take a screenshot of, like, uh, if people would like to take a pic… uh, to open the cameras, uh, and then we can, like, make some funny posts and take a picture.
Um, and that'd be a nice moment.
Alright, if you stop your screen share, and then if we all get our cameras on, uh, we can do our classic…
And of course, celebrations. I'm gonna wait for a few more cameras coming on, I wanna see some smiling faces.
build up some hype, like, hey, you ready? 3…
2… 1… let's go!
And now, one more! 3, 2, 1… yes!
Alright, beautiful. Oh, I see more faces coming. Okay, we're gonna have to do one more, we're gonna have to do one more to get as many people as possible.
3, 1! Yeah, it's…
No.
Alright, beautiful. That's lovely to see everyone's faces from across the globe, all connecting here.
Beautiful.
Yeah, thank you for…
Um, with that hope, does anyone feel, and all the awesome things that have been shared so far, um, does anyone feel called that they want to share a little bit about what they've been doing with their refi node, or other projects that relate to this?
And share a bit with others here on this call. I think we could at least go another 5, 5-10 minutes, uh, if people wanted to share. Uh, but also happy to…
So, and if that's not the case, but…
Just offering that. Silvio!
Yeah, Monty, uh, I love this. Thanks so much, guys, for… for hosting this, this really helps us.
stay on track, move the ball forward, stay more organized, stay more professional, which.
We really need, um, uh, in every way, so thank you, and this has been amazing.
I also want to give a shout-out to Luis. Luis, the resource tool, taking the open source approach.
Um, I think so, certainly in the ethos of, I think, everything we're standing for here.
And as somebody that's kind of been paying for all their expenses the last 2 or 3 years.
I especially appreciate it, um, because we're paying the expenses, we're not even leveraging the assets, so… So that's just very valuable.
Uh, my updates, I think, on my side. I'm going to limit it to kind of three things.
Number one is, we've been working on legacy gardens, so… working with the historic Black churches in West Coconut Grove here in Miami.
to do community gardens with the churches. For food security, and we have been supporting a local nonprofit called EcoPlanet Earth.
To do that, we started at the end of last year, we built our first garden this year.
And now we're expanding that. We were able to get the city on board to give a grant, the county on board to give a grant.
you know, hustled a lot to give, like, pick up free trees and stuff, and plant them.
Uh, and then we scan them, we tried to do an eco-cert.
with Dean Forrest. Um, didn't end up minting it, because we want to make sure that we have an MOU in place with that other non-profit, just to make sure everything is super kosher.
So we didn't pull the trigger, but we did invite the team to the green pill call.
Yesterday, so they could learn more about this, because, you know, they don't… a lot of these folks don't really understand the tech side of what we're trying to do.
for the validation, but that legacy garden is a big… has been one of the big focuses for us this year.
The other has been in the blue economy. So, one with coral restoration, we worked with the local high schools.
And, uh, and local foundation. And, uh, dive clubs, and… to do coral restoration efforts. We asked the different high school students to make art.
Um, related to… and I could… I could even maybe show us.
show some things here. Uh, we got asked to make some art.
Um, and so we added all these students, put some art together, and then when they did the art, we were able to go, and the idea is connect that art.
to benefit the Students for Coral Preservation Foundation. And then we would have, like, a proof of choral protocol in the end, is kind of what we're… what we're gunning for.
But at least we're kind of starting to do that nature-based solution emphasis.
Um, and then lastly, I've been fighting. I've been fighting a lot.
with policy in the city of Miami. as the appointee to the Climate Resilience Committee, because the city.
And the politicians have been trying to pass legislations that make it easier to cut trees down.
to be… to do bigger developments. And so the community got up at arms, we partnered with the Sierra Club.
Um, and we were able to… to fight and win.
and remove some of that legislation that was going to damage our city and our goals to.
reach 30% canopy. As well as think about new policies to incentivize smart development.
How do we incentivize if you need to go up.
Right? And you're saving 100 square feet, 300 square feet.
How do we give a bonus to developers that actually keep those trees in place?
to be able to up that, and then if we… and then to update also tree mitigation tables, as well as to pilot.
putting… we have a tree trust fund, so when people cut the tree down, they have to put money into a tree trust fund.
How do we explore bringing the Tree Trust Fund on-chain?
Right? And so that's one of the goals we are trying to align with the government blockchain association as well. So those are the three things, really excited. Monty, it was wonderful meeting you.
During EuroClimate week as well. you're super tall, um, uh, and to see that background with you and my girlfriend, you guys.
sharing some friends and background and comments. quite lovely, white, really magical, working with the region.
very touching, um, hopefully I can… I can join you guys and we can do more.
But those are the updates on my side with Refine Miami.
Again, we've been… we launched our foundation, we have the foundation, Logos Impact Foundation Incubating.
Refine Miami, so we have, like, an official legal entity.
to apply for grants. We also tried, um… through Scott Morris, shout out to Scott, which is not on this call, um, Scott, as you know, Monty.
work with us to try to mediate and support us in many other ways to move the ball forward.
We worked with, um, I think it's… what is that group out of the UK?
that has, uh, tree intelligence, a tree intelligence, um.
focus. We, uh, Dark Matter Labs. So, at my firm and Dark Matter Labs worked on an MOU.
In the beginning of the year to find out how do we fund this, how do we get more grants, and then do something more institutional for regenerative finance instruments.
in partnership, in concert with them. So, I'd love to open that up.
And lastly, we collaborated with Mexico. One of our biodiversity projects.
We're doing the first biodiversity credits project initiative. Logos Capital, my firm.
is part of the Biodiversity Credits Alliance. And so, there's a UNESCO World Heritage Site out of Mexico City called.
Sochimilco, which has an endangered species there that depends on water quality.
So we're building the first kind of biodiversity credits with regen.
Um, uh, water quality credits. And will you be using, like, drones and creating a water ledger from that?
which hopefully serves as an example for the United Nations Development Program.
And biofin, the bioregional finance facility. of the UN in concert. So those are my updates. It's really great.
Talk about refi everywhere we go, so folks know about it.
Um, really love this community, and congrats on all of you for.
being here, for sticking it through, and for resourcing others that are trying to do their best. So, thank you guys so much. It's certainly an encouragement.
To be part of this collective. Over.
That's amazing. Wow, lots of incredible updates and exciting stuff there, Sylvia. Thanks for…
Thanks for sharing that with us all.
Um, and… yeah, I saw, Sandra, you had your hand up as well. I think you're in the…
the crypto Refi Cafe, uh, that I've been to visit.
Ah yes. Hello!
And I think you also just had Jimmy over as well.
Yeah, it's been quite exciting. It's just been, uh, going, going, going, but, um, very exciting for us. You know, last year, we were really diligent about.
doing monthly cleanups, we were going to a place called Shankan for monthly Earth Day, and.
Um, this year, we started to expand, um, all of those, uh, events into also educational events, so we've been doing.
Basically, we started during World Ocean Day, and then, um, you know, got some requests to continue doing ocean-focused events, and then moved into, you know, just.
regular refi, it's now called… we rebranded, it's called Refi Horizons.
And, um, you were the first, Monty, and so it was great to have you here and introduce you to.
The Tulum community, and I think that there's a real opportunity there. We've also been expanding beyond refi. How do we get funding? How do we keep this organization going? And one of the things that I've found to be.
Um, at least promising in terms of, you know, delivering.
funds that we need are the scholarship and… not scholarship, the sponsorship route.
And so, we've been, you know, getting a lot of our cleanup sponsored and then expanding that into the events.
And then also just being able to provide a platform for people that are curious.
to connect around refi, to ask their questions, and yeah, there's still a lot of that.
Crypto hesitancy, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot.
Um, but there's people that also, you know, do understand and are open to it, and are really curious about how it can apply to their own efforts. We just did.
The refi horizons with Jimmy in a place called Bacalar, which is a beautiful lagoon that has, like, the origins of life.
The stromotoletes, and so that was really incredible, and I think just.
Nice.
yeah, like, you know, being… doing a lot more.
Networking with other organizations that are on the ground and kind of opening their eyes to how they can, you know, find these additional mechanisms of funding and community and growth.
So, yeah, there's a lot of curiosity about that. I think that, um, sometime next year, it would make sense for us to do.
you know, a similar around for the refi projects around the space. And it's also funny to run into people that are like.
wow, like, you're so refi because you're just… you just went rogue, and you did something, like, there's this group called, uh, the, um… Mision voyado, and what they did is they saw that, you know, the growth of.
The growth of, um, this area in terms of tourism has really, you know, been endangering these organisms, which are called those thromotolites, and also the mangroves, and so.
They just, like, started to block off these areas, like, create these partitions and ropes, and they studied, you know, what was the right kind of matter to use for the ropes and material and.
Um, and, you know, so they put these themselves together, and they've, like, almost protected, like, 75% of the area that they identified. I was like, wow, this is… You're so refi! But, um, you know, so there's so many things like that that are happening on the ground here, and it's been just really…
Wonderful to use this as a platform to connect, and also another thing that we were, like, at least a lot of the people here locally.
have been part of is this, uh, Latin American accelerator called MIMA, and it's just been super helpful in terms of… I mean, I come from a Silicon Valley startup background, so a lot of these things I should know, but just to be in a group that is.
Going through, like, you know, what is, um, you know, what is your Canvas be? What is, you know, like, I think we did a lot of that, you know, in our initial.
Um, in our initial cohort, uh, you know, getting off the ground, but coming back to those things after being in operation and kind of figuring out what are the things that are working.
Where do we see, you know, the monetization, you know, really being promising? And so, yeah, I think that, um.
Yes, we've learned a lot, and I think we've kind of come to a place where we now understand.
It's, you know, what our true MVP is in terms of this.
Um, platform for connecting, um, all of these, uh, different refi initiatives, and also finding funding for them.
And also, for us, being that. Scouts, the intermediary scout that can connect VCs to, um, you know, these new technologies.
Um, and help them accelerate, so… Um, yeah, you know, really excited about everything that we've had going on, and um, yeah, of course, like, meeting.
wonderful people in person, like Monty and Jimmy, and um, yeah, you know, just kind of, like, having fun while we're doing it. We also, uh.
also got a coral regeneration experience off the ground as well while Jimmy was here.
And so, yeah, and that's, like, partnered with a local nonprofit called Oceanis.
So, so much going on. I want to connect with you, too. On, uh, Miami stuff and what you're doing with the Excelote. That's so amazing.
Um, for those of you that don't know, the endangered species or animal that is in that lagoon is this.
really cute little amphibious. creature that is, like, it just looks so adorable. It looks like it has, like, a happy smiley face on it, and it's got these little prints.
like a real Pokemon.
And it's pink, and it's just so cute! So, yeah, that's so awesome that you're doing that. Um, so yeah, we've been, um, yeah, working hard over here and coming to some, um, you know, good realizations about where, um, we need to focus in terms of a business, uh, and, you know, not, um, depending fully on, you know, refi money, although I think that the magic intermittent money is still there. That's what.
You know, we know that we'll be able to, you know, make a living and, you know, be doing good for the planet.
Uh, you know, soon, it's just the beginning, so I have full faith in that, but in the meantime, we still have to.
supplement our efforts with, you know, other sources of funding, which there are. There's so many sources of funding out there.
And it's just a matter of presenting yourself in the right way and having the right offering that people.
want to, um, purchase. Right? And so that means, like, having a proper deck, having proper PDFs and one-sheets about what your offerings are and, you know, getting the right logos in place, and yeah, so it's been a lot of fun, a lot of learnings, and I'm really excited for.
where we are and what's to come.
Amazing! Thank you, Sandra, for sharing.
Awesome stuff, awesome vibes.
Mm-hmm.
Amazing, Sandra. And shout out, Sandra, you've been a real rock star, always the DAOs within the refi network, most closely aligned to us, and wanting to collab, and… You know, you and I met before ReFi DAO launched, and you've been doing this work a long time.
OG, OG.
Holding it down. And with the Crypto Cafe, and NFTs and everything, with the plastics recycling, and.
You know, you just, you know, you're really about it, you live and breathe this, Sandra, you really walk the talk in an incredible way.
Yes.
Yeah.
So I just want to honor you, and because… and thank you, because you, you know, you're one of these.
Thank you, so we have.
sparks that, uh, that's doing the right thing, so really grateful for you.
100%.
Uh… Yeah, let's talk about collaborations, and, you know, I really love the whole, uh, you know, the events have been really wonderful in terms of bringing people together and just creating really magical.
moments, you know, like around the fire, Monty, when it was raining.
Yeah, the lightning going down. It was an incredible, it was such a nice week. Honestly, if anyone here wants to go, uh, have an excuse to go visit Tulum, Sandra is the most wonderful host, and I'm sure she'd be very happy. Um, and…
It's always fun to, like, create events, you know, honestly, like, I think that that's been super fun, just to be able to create events and introduce, you know, you guys to our communities.
Uh, and yeah, like, I mean, you guys are… everyone is doing amazing things, and I think that, like, it also helps us spark that interest within our community, like, who's these, who are these characters coming into Tulum?
Why are we… why are we doing an event around them? So, um, yeah, this has been very fun.
Amazing. Cool. Thanks so much for sharing. Um, I think…
I think we're coming… coming towards the end of wrapping up the call. I think now is the last moment, if you're desperate to share and want to share a little bit, then quickly raise your hand.
Um, otherwise, I think we might, uh, wrap the call for today. I'm gonna grab some lunch, and…
Yes, exactly.
I see Louise is sharing screen. Oh, and grab the Po app as well. Make sure… I think about 6 people have done that so far.
Um, download the PoApp Home app.
Uh, on iPhone or Android, and then, yes, look, you can see it here on the screen.
Um, just as a fun celebration, uh, for your attendance here.
And our time together.
Yes, exactly.
Oh, look, there's a QR code, that's quite handy.
You can use a QR code, that may make things easier.
Um, and then also, just quickly, I hope nobody's trying to scan the QR code right now.
Um, but just wanted to share, um…
Actually, first of all, thank, uh, thank you all a lot for joining, and, like, the session today and being part of the network, and actually making ReFiDAO, um,
Yeah, B, something.
Um, and then, just wanted to share a couple of quick
follow-ups, um…
So, one is that, as Monty mentioned, we'll be sharing a thread on the region coordination hub, uh, so on RIFADAO's Forum.
Uh, for doing a quick retrospective of 2025 and vision for 2026, so if you'd have anything that you'd like to share, or, like, ideas for 2026,
There, um, yeah, that'd be the place to do it.
Um, also, we do have the local nodes, leads, telegram group, so if you'd like, yeah, if you'd have any additional, like, questions, or would need support with that.
Um, and also just wanted to bring the possibility that we've been considering doing, uh, some not-so-structured, but a bit more loose, um, work, like, recurrent, uh, support works.
For local nodes, we could try to do it monthly in 2026.
But, yeah, basically, uh, have this open space where local nodes can come, uh, bring questions, challenges, experiences, like what they've been working on, and so on.
Uh, it's really, really nice to be connecting with you all, uh, like, as today, so it could be nice to do it more.
Uh, and yeah, uh, do anyone have anything else that they'd like to share, uh, before we close off the call?
Yeah, otherwise, then I'd just like to thank everyone again, um, yeah, it was really nice.
Uh, and yeah, we show some good holidays, uh, and looking forward to seeing the network growing.
Yes, thank you so much, everyone. Thanks for coming. Uh, feel free to unmute and just say goodbye, and then we'll end the call.
As we all drop off.
Goodbye! Happy holidays, everyone!
All right. Bye, guys. Bye-bye.
Happy holidays! Happy New Year! Hello!
Bye guys, thank you. It was very inspiring.
Have a great Christmas!
Api Holloway.
Thanks, bye bye.
We'll see you in 2026. Let's go!
Let's…
Let's go!
Let's make 2026 the year of the refi comeback.
Very nice to see you guys. Ciao!
Goodbye, goodbye. Ciao, chiao, ciao.
Bye!
Thank you. Take time.
Mm-hmm.